- I have said it many times
that building a microservices architecture
is not a silver bullet when it comes to developing software.
I have also spent a significant amount of time talking
about what the issues that can arise in this model are.
I want to talk about these from the perspective of comparing
and contrasting the tradeoffs.
Many thought leaders like Mark Richards and Martin Fowler
have significant documentation on these tradeoffs.
So I'm just going to apply some of my personal experiences
to the information that I have gathered from them.
We have talked a lot about the distribution tax.
There's a significant cost
of building out a distributed system,
but you get several benefits from this.
One of the biggest benefits
is well-defined module boundaries.
It is a lot harder to write tightly coupled code
when you have to go across the service boundary
to make a call.
In addition, you get a much easier path
of scaling your system.
These are real tradeoffs that you need to manage
and they may be some of the most critical in the system.
We have talked a lot about this
and various solutions like event-driven asynchronous models
because it is so critical.
Think about a company like Amazon
that does business globally
and clearly has spikes in order activity
around Christmas for instance.
And for them to manage their system
in a monolithic deployment,
it would be next to impossible.
They have managed the cost of distribution
in order to leverage a clear benefit
of doing business globally
and under a highly available model.
One of the other dichotomies to evaluate in microservices
is deployment complexity.
We have discussed the ability
to scale in this architecture style.
However, that ability to scale
increases the complexity of our deployments.
Now, I would argue that deployments
are always a hard part of software delivery.
But in microservices, there are just so many moving parts
that the complexity increases dramatically.
We've also talked about ways to solve this complexity
through continuous delivery.
The benefits of scale and reduce waste over that scale
can be measured and the financial benefits often can be used
to built out a path and increase the savings even more.
The final tradeoff that I will talk about
is the ability to have diversity in your technology stack.
We talked about microservices being a heterogeneous model,
but this ability to write your services in any technology
comes with real operational costs.
You can fully embrace polyglot development if you want,
but managing these services in production
when they follow different rules
can be a huge challenge.
From my experiences, it is often better in these cases
to embrace a smaller set of technologies
to improve your ability to manage the operations.
I have said this several times as well,
but you have to spend some serious time
evaluating these tradeoffs within your system.
Manage to the strengths and control the weaknesses
and you will achieve significantly better results.
I really hope that I'm imparting in you
a real need to plan and not just jump in.